hey everybody
we're not over we we uh I think we have
last call till six or later
um but with only 250 sessions and
1700 brain dates we learned in Europa
some people have more questions so uh I
I'm only here to help we can line up I
have no agenda but if folks want to talk
about stuff and I can possibly help
answer it let's do it but before we go
can we just bring out Amelia Barra who
runs faster and just thank her for all
the hard work because
I think they're pretty good
I think it was the best Sasser annual
ever
crossed 10 000 people
all this made it the reason this was the
best one is uh Amelia does what the best
leaders do is make it look effortless so
uh lots of respect so thank you very
much yeah
[Applause]
yeah
so and cheers to everybody thank you for
being being a part of all of this
um so again I've got nothing although
I'm happy to make up some things but if
folks got questions come up to the
microphone and if I can help I'll
certainly answer some or create a
dialogue around stuff what do people
want to talk about
hmm
uh what's been your biggest lesson from
saster the last two days
wow that's a that's a trick question my
biggest I should ask you what the
biggest lesson is
um
you know I think that uh I'll have to
process that for a couple of days I
think
you know it's interesting um
when I started when I was a sassio and
even when we started you know one of the
things we did at Sasser is try to not
just the number one goal was to share
the mistakes that I and others made so
that the odds were lower you would make
them but as time went on we shared
lessons we shared lessons what best
practices were in customer success and
revenue tension and all these things are
right we know what top tier nrr is and
CAC and all these things but it was
super interesting that the two
the two the two big interviews I did
were with Ben Chestnut from MailChimp
yesterday and with darmesh and Brian
from HubSpot and it was interesting that
they broke rules and I don't mean in an
edgy way I don't mean what I mean is Ben
broke the rule that he didn't care what
nrr and churn were and of course we we
need to care at some level but as a
bootstrap business it was Top Line
growth and bottom line and he said it
you know he said it differently but it
bit them a little bit as they got to 800
and gross load and most of us would be
thrilled to get to 800 million and see
the growth so so it did catch up but
but he broke he did broke break those
rules and the HubSpot thing today was so
they broke two rules which I hadn't
really thought through
um they had low nrr all the way until 30
they were aware of it but you know
startups that I work with closely are
invested in if they got all the way to
25 million with 75 nrr I would I would
tell them to quit
today right I mean there's there's a
um and and uh so um it's interesting
that they they were intent they knew
what they were doing
um and then I hadn't really thought
about
how HubSpot went there now and we didn't
get to all of it but hubspot's in like
they have like five or six products they
have service and all this but the second
Cloud for them was sales and um it
really makes no sense because I've asked
so many of the best sassios that are
public how to go multi-product if you
read saster it's been a recurring theme
and the best one of all if if you didn't
see it we did it at one of our digital
events this year was Spencer skates
who's seal of amplitude one of my
favorites seos and he did a whole one
hour on his mistakes going multi-product
into their IPO and his point that many
many of the leaders say is the mistake
is trying to sell something that's
really cool to a different buyer like
they wanted to sell the amplitude
product I forget two to sales or
somebody else and that was their mistake
and the learning is sell sell two things
to buyers and the fact that HubSpot did
the opposite and and sold a sales
product to sales people hooray it
started off premium but free doesn't
make it any easier to sell anything does
it so so I think my learning is just
know the rules know the kpis
um they're all public find public comps
and copy them but it's okay to like get
there a little bit differently or break
a rule or two if it's intentional like
if it's if it's intentional so that's my
my big lesson from both of them
yeah
um I've been thinking about goal setting
a lot lately for organizations and teams
and there seems to be sort of two ways
to think about it one would be set
ambitious inspiring impossible goals
that have like low chance of success but
sort of drive an organization in a
Direction
but that you kind of expect to fail
towards
and then the other is to set reasonable
uh objectives that you know you can hit
and that everyone feels good about when
there's all Greens on the chart yep
whatever
have you noticed a pattern among I don't
know the ones that end up on this stage
where they go one way I think I didn't
notice a pattern
um
and I wrote it up a couple years ago and
refreshed it
um and then I'll add a new anecdote um
you know I wrote this years ago and that
have updated it of like the three plans
you need to make as a founder and I call
them no one's really ever copied this
nomenclature but I call them C10 C60 and
C90 and C is the confidence Factor and
C10 is the big plan that there's a 10
like a two percent chance you're gonna
hit it like talk about that with your
co-founder over beers or Rose there's no
point right ten percent there's a chance
so talk about what if we play if we
think we could do 9 million next year
but look if the stars align we did a
Google sheet it's possible to do 12.
that's that's your 10 the 60 is probably
where your core plan should be we have a
60 chance thinking we can do it more
likely than not but barely that's how
you build your core model your core
models for sales for marketing spend for
hiring and engineering and product
and then with your Finance person or
yourself or your outsourced person you
build a C90 plan which is one we're 90
sure even if sales slow we're going to
hit this plan and the advantage you
don't in my experience the 10 becomes
your stretch plan the 60 becomes your
base and the 90 is the quiet plan you
use to not run out of money that's how
you manage your burn rate and not enough
people do that and then you look and you
say okay if let's say next year you
think you're going to grow 100 you think
there's a chance you can grow 120 but
there's a risk you grow 70 I'm just
making up the numbers okay do the that
70 plan that you know there's a 90
chance you're gonna hit and sometimes
you end up earning more cash than you
thought and so you've got to readjust
that so you don't run out of money so I
like doing the the c90s so that you know
you won't fail you won't run out of
money 60 for the company and then 10 is
the stretch
um and then what's interesting is I
don't know if you're at the last session
with Sam blonde who was the cereal of
Brax um he's done other stuff but you
know when he came out to our Miami
Meetup I think in March he did a great
go watch it on YouTube he did a great
presentation on how to set sales goals
for his team and someone who's been Zero
brex from like I think maybe 10th
employee so first sale then he did it at
zenefits and he did another company with
me he did it for me back in the day like
these are insanely fast-growing
companies and he said even Tim he wants
80 of his reps to hit planned
right so it's it's hot it's not the same
point but he he wants a successful sales
team a culture of winners so you need
most people hitting it so anyhow that's
my thought you can look on saster but I
really like the C10 C6 Founders don't do
it or they're lazy and when they do it
their eyes always always open when they
do these plants and so the C60 is the
one that gets communicated the team is
like on our base it's just the base plan
yeah okay if you have more than a 60 per
chance hitting it it's not ambitious
right
um 90s too conservative isn't it uh
we're startups but 10 is to is 10 is is
the crazy Co and then all the sales the
whole team quits when it's 10 right so
you can tweak those if you want but
they're they're like a Fibonacci
Sequence everyone kind of knows what 60
is 10 and 90 and I think if you fuss
around people don't instantly know what
what the what what those things mean
right cool thank you so much yep
great to be here Jason thanks for coming
yeah uh early winter talk with failing
of a couple Adventures you're talking
about validation that kind of things and
you mentioned that Elite Founders could
get better terms and my question is uh
what are which are the characteristics
of elite Founders nowadays how how high
is the bar right now
for elite Founders for yeah I mean I'll
answer the question generally do you
mean specifically for raising venture
capital or just in general yeah raising
relation capital I don't think the bar
has changed
um
and I'll step back a minute when I was
running my last startup Adobe sign Echo
sign which talked about too much but
um
in my in my batch of of Founders for my
series it was called the be then to be
an a today it was emergence Capital so
in my group was
um Peter gasner who's CIA Viva which is
worth 30 billion David sax who then was
CEO of Yammer um Renee Le cert CEO of
bill which I think is where it was
almost at a billion in Revenue
um some of the best like and and so
um I was like I think either the worst
of the best or maybe the best of the
mid-pack of that group fcos and it was
correlated with the size of the outcome
having a nine figure exit they had 10
and 11. and so
I'm I'm rambling for a point I I
realized quickly where I stood in the
hierarchy right when I met Peter gasner
CEO Viva and we did a great session way
back at 2017 annual on on YouTube it's
one of the best faster ones ever I'm
like this guy knows like this is
the best CEO I've ever met with Peter
and how did I know it's not that he was
had been that VP of engine sales force
or CTO it's not that he was smart and
Wise It's that he understood my business
almost better than I did in the first
meeting and that was that that and he
was so nice the way he said it but that
that level of insight I had I'd really
never seen and
um then I met David sacks at Yammer not
when he was whatever all in pod dude and
and I mean I love David but and and
David was different than Peter but he
had this energy this intensity to drive
something off the cliff and I'm like I'm
kind of I have my own kind of energy but
not like David like David's gonna build
something bigger than I'm gonna build
and I met Renee from Bill and a lot of
people didn't get Bill for a long time I
mean it's and I wrote a sacrifice when
they went public our five interesting
learnings like you've probably never
heard of this company but the CEO is
really good I met Renee and I I really
didn't think Renee is one of the top 10
CEOs but maybe for a different reason I
I think Renee is smarter than me but
maybe not in the crazy way that Peter is
Renee had a 30-year Vision even when I
met him and he'd done a startup before
called pay cycle that had had a lot of
driving into it bought it for 150
million which sounds like a lot but
there was executive turnover and I don't
think it was the greatest experience for
him I think he won and he did Bill
because he had a he didn't just want to
do payroll on the internet he wanted to
automate all the ways SMP and he had the
same vision when I met him in 2006 he
had it in 2008 2009 and
um I remember with Renee we were sitting
at an event in Hawaii called the lobby
in like 2013 a night soul I was kind of
investing in chilling and I'm like Renee
who's running what a 20 billion dollar
company today right and I'm like Renee
how's it going 20 30 it's like freaking
hard Jason he's like it's so good to see
you he's like no one understands sass I
can't find any great VPS no one will
fund me okay I'm like yeah that's pretty
bad my friend
and and but he's like I'm on this I'm
gonna find a way I'm on this 30 year
Journey he actually had to raise I think
around a really terrible terms and
prices at the time and whoever got it
got an insane deal right but then I saw
someone truly on a 30-year Journey right
to revolutionize the way accounting bill
payment this this this this network for
smbs and he was such a Visionary across
two startups and I'm sharing those
stories to say the bar's always been
that okay right and um
and I will say as an investor if you
want from an investor standpoint I think
I've done only 30 Venture Investments
since 2013. the ones that did really
well almost all but one they were like
that right and you walk into the meeting
and
um and the ones you wish you had
invested right
um and
um so uh and so they the bar has gone up
in the sense that investors are looking
for even faster growth investors are
hoping for 100 growth at 100 million AR
that's what you can back into today and
it's crazy investors want 100 growth at
100 AR but the intangible piece that
founder that is better than me that is
better than even most people in the room
that's that's I don't know if that is
that's what people want and it hasn't
changed it's that crazy thing right and
like with figma talking to all the folks
backstage that met I don't even know him
he hasn't that met Dylan at figma they
all say he was just off the charts from
the beginning right and there's that
could mean different things but that's
what they want 100 growth at 100 million
and then a CEO at least as good as
that's all the VCS want nice yeah sure
but one last Point since we're changing
just so you know like why do VCS why do
they want Peter gasner and David sacks
and Dylan from figma
um look I I've written a little bit
about it but it's not obvious like it's
just just so you know so you don't bang
your head against the stage it's so hard
to make money and venture right let's
just do some quick math for fun you know
uh on day three but let's say you have a
four 500 million dollar Venture fund to
keep your mouth simple 500 million and
you invest
10 million for 10 percent of a company
and it and it sells for 300 million
dollars like that's pretty good exit
right I mean it's not how much do you
make 30 million how much of your 500
have you paid back you haven't even made
10 back and the clock is ticking your
goal as a VC fund is to do at least 3x
and obviously more so that 500 million
Venture fund has to turn that into at
least 1.5 billion dollars one point now
let's imagine you invested early in
figma I mean good God 20 billion and you
owned one percent how much do you make
200 million like you're not even halfway
like you don't you don't even get a
thank you note from your LPS right so I
know working with VCS the later stage it
can be frustrating but at least in
anything in the world you want to
understand their business model why do
my customers act this way and you're the
VC thing it's not just greed it's not
it's just hard to make all that money
back and until you think about the math
you don't realize why and I'll tell you
one last story and then we'll break but
like so I was you know my second
investor again was emergence capital I
love them and you know I made them 30
million dollars in two years at the time
I thought that was that was great of me
right and then I go someone shared with
me their confidential returns okay this
was like a 10x fund so I think they
turned 250 million into 2.5 billion at
the time and I was like and they listed
Viva and they listed Yammer I'm like
where's Echo sign like I made you guys
30 million dollars and it was an
asterisk at the bottom all other exits
like I was Amalgamated I didn't even get
a line in the emergence numbers and it
was like an epiphany I'm like okay I I
now I'm starting to understand how
Venture works like I get now I get why
people act the way they do because I was
so small for I made them 30 million
dollars I didn't even get a line I
didn't even get the bottomless line on
the portfolio right so that that's why
you can't make it so hard to make money
right
yeah
Justin thanks a lot for the event it's
been fantastic thank you so from a
former SAS founder yeah an Investor's
perspective like early stage startups
post MVP post Revenue but you know
pre-seed where do you strike that
balance between you're trying to get
product to Market quickly you're trying
to get the traction to get the numbers
to attract the capital but you're gonna
have warts on the product from the MVP
you're trying to where do you strike
that where do you see that balance truck
where you start focusing more on the
product quality and less on the speed I
mean it's kind of a hard thing is that
something you would expect Founders to
be focusing on prior prior to their
season well look I I will say I'll
answer the question in two ways um
I'll answer it
um devoid of capital and then I'll
answer it related to raising money as a
Founder you're all this is a trade-off
you're going to do were you with the
session with HubSpot Founders I was yeah
it was great I mean Brian said it took
him 10 years to be proud of the product
right right
um so obviously that struggle is endemic
to all of us as Founders even if we're
deeply technical we never get the
product we want and if we have the sales
guy leaving the company there's all
these other issues and it there's always
future gaps and everyone is technical
debt and almost everyone refactors the
product once or half for factors it and
hits some sort of technical debt wall
between two and ten most people don't
hit a technical debt wall on customer
one because it's like not a lot of load
on the servers but everyone goes through
these these trade-offs right so
but for raising Capital Crimea
River
I'll tell you the loserous thing and I
put I'm not even gonna I put a lot of
things I actually don't think this is
good the loserest thing as a Founder you
can say to a VC right they make you
sound like a loot and I literally never
use the word loser right Sarah but it's
true is we didn't grow that fast last
month because we were fundraising
as an investor when you hear that
there's not even doors here you're going
to run the hell out the door aren't you
right and it for many fighters it's true
like it's so much work to meet how could
I meet 50 investors and also hit the
plan when I'm the chief sales officer
like how can you like Cry Me a River but
you know who does it all the people I
just described right right they all hit
the number when they fundraised and all
the great Founders and I'm not saying
it's easy and it's not just hours worked
it's hard right but like
so operationally this is a trade-off
you'll have for your entire at least for
10 years like a HubSpot right but for
VCS trust me cry me a river right
because again going to the prior point
if you really want to unpack VCS like I
got into this a little bit with alien
this morning but just I know it's when
you see the math that I described you
get it VCS can only invest in outliers
you cannot make money outside of
outliers you just cannot make enough
money so any signals that a company
might do great but not being an outlier
you've got to run for the hills and the
signal of I couldn't do it because I was
fundraising that's a signal that like
more power to you as a human being but
you'll never be an outlier right and so
you got to quit you got to quit right so
don't ever don't look like a fundraising
VC loser and don't don't let them see
you sweat and don't let the trade share
the trade-offs in a good way right I'm
proud that we not only hit the plan for
the month but I did 50 investor meetings
I'm like oh that I want to invest in her
all right thanks for the question
2022 the best ever I have been here good
to hear thanks if anyone on the team are
Emilia you can hear rock and roll four
times four times yeah well I was here
I'm gonna have a direct question to you
so I was here for Saturday 2020. I met
the day I all right so when I received
the email saying that Sasso got canceled
sorry yeah so that's totally fine I mean
like I was one of your supporters who
were sending emails continuously to San
Jose uh Convention Center asking them to
do a refund and stuff thank you I have
like two questions for you yes one that
was like a disaster right what happened
the last minute they went to the refund
and everyone can come in and support you
but then you are being the leader you
are the one who is taking the heat right
so how did it come out of this because
this could happen to any business here
so uh when you have like the events as
industry was like down right yeah I mean
like no one could do anything and that
was going on for like the entire year
you had to postpone even by like 18
months after yeah we lost 10 million
dollars right so how as a leader what
helped you to recover uh from a disaster
like that I'm just curious to know like
what was your mindset and what steps did
you take well it's funny if you really
want to talk about it um you know did
you hear the HubSpot one were you here
for this no well so Brian Hall again the
co-founders are I mean hubspot's worth
almost 20 billion but Brian right after
kovid drove had a horrible snowmobile
accident broke everybody in his body
almost lost him
and um
and it's crazy and you can watch the
session later it's great I mean he he
barely recovered um he looked he's great
now but it was it was a long roll back
from falling off a big cliff on the
snowmobile in the dark and had to be
airlifted out and I think he broke 40
bones or something terrible and I asked
them the question after that like
it's a black but from a corporate
perspective it's a Black Swan event
right it sounds crazy and my experience
in my career every five to seven years
I've had a Black Swan event and I asked
them if there were others at HubSpot and
interesting they didn't have another one
right but I can think back every four or
five years I can think of one and I if I
wasn't tired I actually wrote a tweet
and I listed all of the Black Swan
events I've had in my career and they
happened cut somewhat they're
unpredictable but regularly on the four
to six year Cadence and so
when covet hit and the night came that
Santa Clara was shutting everything down
and we had to cancel it two days before
the team was
Beyond upset right I mean I mean how as
a leader right I mean just Ashen and um
I was driving and pushing and pushing
and we went we had to shrink from three
days to two days as speakers cancel and
we had to do all these things and we
were down to like an afternoon event by
the end we had we had a core group of
folks that still wanted to do it and we
still would have done it right and then
the night before I realized we had to
call we had to call we had to call foul
like it was there was just no more way
when this tweet went out that Santa
Clara County was prohibiting any
Gathering even though there was no covid
really in the U.S yet
um then I realized and then that minute
I'd had Black Swan events before right
and I want to give you another story at
the end and I I went to you know Amelia
who you met who she was tougher ahead of
climbing up the team was devastated and
I just okay we're we're done let's we
sat down and for five hours until three
in the morning we just planned out our
best responses and the team's better
than me and they're great but I had been
through the Black Swan event so
immediately I went into Black Swan mode
right I just okay it happened I was I'm
not expecting it to happen but boom I
know what you do and you gotta flip the
plan and you gotta immediately be a
leader and change and I think if you ask
like puya who's our number one sales rep
he's closed 28 million he was he's here
he's so great I don't know if he's here
right now but he was just devastated but
he'd worked so hard right and he's like
I thought it was a crappy leader but
he's like you were such a great leader
through that because you were just I
don't know how you were so calm but
that's what happens when you've been
through a couple a couple Black Swan
events right
um but related to that there's an email
if I did I put it so
I look for them now and as a leader as
crazy sounds I think you have to look
for Black Swan events I think you have
to look for them because you'll start to
see them and like in January of 2020 the
CDC put out an email that said covet
might be an issue for travel
and I I wish I had I put on screen I
immediately forward it to Amelia and I
said by literally emails is this is
probably our Black Swan event this year
because I knew the signs I'd felt it
before and every year for saster there's
some except for this year this is our
best year in terms of execution but
every other year for eight years there
was a little Black Swan event for us
right something blew up
um you know one year the person that ran
it forgot to
reserve the venue that was pretty bad
oh my God okay
um even this year one of the big vendors
for us quit three weeks ago they quit
three weeks ago a key vendor that we've
relied on for years they just quit they
didn't want to do the work okay so those
things used to destroy us we built
redundancy we built resiliency so the
minute that vendor quit after four years
Ashley from Montgomery entertainment
she's one of the best that produces she
just stepped up and Emilia stepped up
well he fixed it right it wasn't easy
but kudos to her and she's not hearing
this hopefully she sees our my
appreciation in the video
um but so now I plan I plan for them
right and so I'm not saying you
literally have to plan for a snowmobile
accident or a pandemic but you want to
think what what could really what what
kind of things could screw this company
up what if the what if the round doesn't
happen what if um what if my co-founder
quits like like for example like someone
on your executive team is going to quit
that you don't expect and when I do
I don't ask these questions of the CEOs
anymore but I used to in the early days
you watch the videos I'd always ask like
was there a great VP that quit on you
and every everyone has the story Aaron
levia box had this story one of the
interviews with them is how their first
VP event quit he thought they would
never recover right they lost their VP
events you thought the world had ended
and it probably had but and now I always
plan for a VP to leave and and like you
know the ones that won't leave but even
then something could happen right
something in their life and so that's
one that every founder should plan for
which is that one of your most trusted
teammates
for some reason leaves you lose them
like it could be a snowmobile accident
for HubSpot it could be a personal issue
it could be a home issue it could be you
don't realize how stressed they are and
they just quit to go on a walkabout but
that's one if you plan for nothing else
plan on someone a key right-hand person
that you would never think leaving leave
and so have a calm plan what would you
do if they quit how would you handle it
think about it on a walk when you're
calm so that when something like that
hits like losing 10 million like I knew
I didn't know exactly what to do but I
knew Emilia to do we called the lawyers
we called the people we called the
vendors like the folks that do this AV
stuff this is a million and a half bucks
these lights so the trucks that already
started rolling from Texas we
immediately called them and saved about
700 000 because the trucks turned around
um I mean that's a specific example onto
a SAS company but think about people
Black Swan events team Black Swan events
don't spend all your time on them but if
you're gonna go long like you're gonna
have a snowmobile accident or a global
pandemic or friggin Twin Towers being
hit by an airplane I mean I've been
doing startups long enough to remember
the day when the Twin Towers went down
right and uh that almost to to morbid to
talk about in the afternoon I can keep
thinking of the 28th 2000 in 2000 I mean
most of you weren't Founders in 2008
2009 that that it's was so bad in 2008
or nine I can't remember what
I'm sitting at an early SAS like
corporate banking event at like Pebble
Beach on a beautiful day having wine
with like investment makers and VCS and
I get a call on my phone from from our
bank Citibank Greg my banker for years
through 200 I said Greg how you doing
I'm at this event but I love you he's
like you got to pull your money out of
Citibank I'm like what do you mean
citibank's the largest bank in the world
is like I think tomorrow Citibank is
going to fail
and Citibank it turned out almost did
fail like Lehman failed sleeping almost
failed and I'm like Greg where do I put
my money like do I put it in Silicon
Valley Bank what if they fail and he
didn't know he's like at least take half
your money out because the everyone in
the office is talking about we're gonna
do a press release tomorrow the
citibank's gonna fail now there was a
bailout that night and Citibank did not
fail in the morning but I'm just
rambling through like I never as a
Founder thought my bank my bank guy
would call me and tell me to pull my
money out I didn't know where to I
didn't know and one the banks were
closed at 3 P.M where am I going to wire
out half of my 8 million Adventure
Capital like I don't know but um but so
I could I could think of more of those
um my co-founder at Echo sign 10 months
in like my muse walked out the door and
never came back
never came back I never fully recovered
from that right
um and so anyhow that rambly but think
about those when you're if you're if
you're going short don't worry about
this stuff don't plan around if you're
going short right don't worry but if you
think in terms of a decade like Renee
from bill.com calmly think about what
you're going to do when these things
happen and then when they when it
happens once every five years you'll
like spring spring into action like I
did right so thanks for the question
excellent once again thanks everyone and
thank you thank you
hey Jason hey thanks for coming thank
you
um so Jason come a little bit closer
could you sorry yeah so
um if you are a Founder say in 2022 a
first time founder and you get accepted
to what I see but at the same time you
have a seed offering uh which and you're
under 1 million ARR yeah would you go
for YC or you know skip it and and
immediately go to a
to the VC stage and I would yeah sorry
is that the question no no and like
what's your thought process I've been
through this
um I've written a little bit about it on
quora but maybe not on saster um I I
think that um and listen I don't work at
YC right I think if you're not sure to
do it
because the YC companies I've invested
in
it look YC is expensive it's a lot of
dilution for a little bit of capital
um when when the earlier waves pre YC
that did this back when I was starting
my career you see they were founder
rip-offs okay I give a seven percent for
like one hour of a designer's time that
was like the biggest rip-off back in the
day
um but YC is not that white and listen
I'm not into Brands I don't know where
any founder I invested in went to
college but YC is Stanford Harvard MIT
and Caltech all rolled into one and even
if you don't learn a goddamn thing from
the program it it all things being equal
you might as well go to Harvard or
Stanford MIT right not that I care I
don't care
um uh and I went to Harvard and maybe
that's why I don't really respect it or
even ask for Founders I went to but it
doesn't hurt right and and VC is so
respected now look they're like 220
companies in this batch right they can't
all be the next Stripe Right there's got
to be a few a few that will struggle in
a few dogs so but but everyone's looking
for signals in this world there's too
many startups there's too many
opportunities too many companies to join
there's too many companies to fund and
the network at YC is powerful and
the first time I saw it I was I'm a
small investor in front which just
raised a 1.7 billion and I saw the power
to matild going through it I invested in
algoli which is here which is worth
three billion they were very seasoned
french entrepreneurs that raised a seed
before YC and gave up a lot to do YC and
they will all tell you it was worth it
to get them to the next level and then
later for example there's a company
called um treasury Prime which is a
banking as a service API invested in and
the best CTO I know in the world is the
CEO back in the day at echocard Adobe
Center offered him half my stock when we
were at 10 million to join me and half
million a year and I would take nothing
he's that good okay and but he's a
romantic he didn't join me we would both
be billionaires if he had but whatever
Chris if you're watching this dude I
love you but you should have taken the
offer I made 60 would have benefited
both of us anyhow so then he went and he
was a romantic and he did a search
company Hall great engineer hard problem
search or it didn't quite work out he
needed a job and I connected him with a
great YC founder who was building a
company called standard treasury really
early in banking like way too early but
they got bought by Silicon Valley Bank
he made a little bit of money and anyhow
so he'd done this he'd done another
startup that sold for 200 million where
he was the CTO he'd had an exit he was
wicked smart and he wanted to be a CEO
this time and run the whole show and he
seasoned I mean he's not he's not old
but he's not young and he had these wins
and he could get VCS to give him the
money right but he didn't have the whole
thing and I said listen just do YC this
will this will create that missing slice
that you're lacking this confidence this
branding and he's like I don't know I'm
not the wrong guy for YC I'm like hold
on listen I've never worked there I'm
going to write your script
and we practiced it
and immediately they they they you know
he got in and whatever in 60 seconds
it's not that hard um he's like hi I'm
Christine I was co-founder of Merced
systems we required for 200 million
dollars then I was the CTO at another
company YC company the treasury the
first one standard treasury the Silicon
Valley Bank and it became the core of
their existing API now I'm running the
whole show myself I want to reinvent how
banking is done in the 22nd century I
mean you'd fund that wouldn't you yeah
pretty good yeah so
so and and I've tried to give that
advice again and then most recently
there's a there's another one like Chris
one of the best ctOS in my life right I
I will do anything for them that's
starting a company as a first time CTO
he's had a billion dollar exit another
exit Wicked smart and he didn't have a
lot he had a little trouble raising
money but it wasn't that hard right
because he's got it in the grand scheme
of things and I told him to do I see
I said to him look you're going to raise
the money but you're you're missing the
slice and YC is not magic you know
watching a few things online and now we
can do it online and I love Gary tan I
love all these books I'm like it's not
so much but it's going to solve this
slice for you and he didn't do it and
I'm one thousand percent sure for him it
was a mistake
so if I had to distill it all down if
you think YC is not a good deal a
rip-off if you think you can raise the
money I'm sure there you know um uh
Parker from from
um from uh from um sorry I'm getting
tired what's Parker's second uh company
Parker Conrad um
Rippling yeah Parker will tell you to do
it he did it again he didn't have to
lots of folks will tell it to you
um uh I say if you're like Parker maybe
don't like if you Parker's I mean it's
different but if you don't think there's
benefit at YC don't do it right if
you're if you're so far along you can
you just you just you you think it's a
cool brand but if you think there's a
chance it will add that slice that's the
advice I give it just do it so if you're
not it's a rambly answer but I think
with some good examples if you're not
sure I always tell Founders just do it
even if you have the revenue even if you
have if there's a missing slice like
just go to Harvard MIT in Stanford get
it done and it's it's worth it right
yeah thank you so much I think I need
that slice so okay then do it yeah do it
yeah
and take this yeah Gary Anu and Nicholas
please you can give me a little thank
you note but yeah as you're saying thank
you and and team for an amazing event uh
first time really really awesome
um so I I really follow your tweets and
your content and you're like I really
love all the materials you guys put out
there but sometimes you know like I see
the title you know like something like
after 100 millionaire are like growth
slows down I'm like dude I'm trying to
survive here you know super early and
like you know there's really a lot of
other issues that I'm really concerned
about that are not 100 million ARR so
what are maybe like one or two things
maybe you want to I think give as an
advice to Founders who are doing sales
in very early stage the first couple of
million there are maybe uh that you felt
you know like are super I think useful
in that stage and kind of like trying to
develop that I think that that sales
muscle if you will within well look
first of all it's a good it's good some
good feedback we all the early software
content was only around folks sort of
for like one to five million and we
added more diversity to stages and
others and I think we've organized that
we could better organize it so I'll it's
good feedback to us to our team to to
make sure there's an easy way you can
only get that content tent and I've done
some good videos and other content but
if you wanted me to distill like a
couple pieces of advice
that are most important post one one to
five something in that zone right
um it's probably goes back to so much of
our iconic piece first of all and some
of this some of this was like really
Innovative years ago and now is table
stakes and copied but first of all do
whatever it takes to get two reps
hitting quota
whatever it takes get two reps to hit
quota you'll never scale Revenue if you
can't get two people to hit quota if you
don't have two who do you hire
this is the number one hack I've had
this conversation like 20 times here why
did your first rep not work out I always
know the answer would you have bought
from her or him no why did you hire them
well they went they I liked their
LinkedIn they knew how to talk about ACV
and mrr and RRM and but would you have
bought from him no I would not have
broader product this is why we screw up
you can have when you hire your first
couple reps they do need to have sold a
software product
and I vaguely similar something at least
it vaguely close to your ACV like they
can't have sold pool equipment or
plastic sometimes people hire that I all
it can work out a little bit for tiny
smds but it doesn't work in software
okay
um because there's a Playbook at 3K ACV
and 10K and 25k and 100K and they just
know how to talk to customers and they
know the Cadence so higher two reps
close to your ACV
and then forget all the other crap you
read talk with them if you want have
them sell you this pen even if you think
it's right listen to them have them do a
zoom pitch but then say what I buy from
him or her
and
every CEO you talk to almost everyone
will have what I I've written about and
called the first magical sales rep and
when I first wrote this on LinkedIn I
got like a hundred comments with
everyone telling me who their magical
sales are up to I say they're a little
quirky they're a little smarter than
usual they're more product focused they
deeply understand the product and the
customers friggin love that magical
sales rep right they often came from a
slightly different place that was mine
too my mine was a opera singer he had
come from a failed SAS company and was
mid-pack at best but his parents were
both doctors he was wicked smart and he
freaking loved Adobe sign an echo sign
he loved he knew the ins was he the best
closer no he was mid-pack was but and I
remember like the first Dream Force I
went to in SF I'm walking out of the
parking garage
and this really tall guy grabs Me by by
the back of my jacket it's like Jason
it's like we're doing he's like you work
for Echo sign I'm like yeah I work I'm
one of the founders work for exercise
grabbing me like this is tall six six
sales guys like do you work with Joe
Coletti the sales guys I work with Joe
yeah he's our only rep yeah I work with
Joe I love Joe I love Joe and that's the
kind of thing that you want and you get
that when you would buy from them when
you would buy for them so but find two
reps you would buy from
um work with them help them so they hit
quota and then hire a sales leader the
other mistake people make I mean it's
become so trite but it it in in the last
panel I'm sure will recite it like it's
it's hyper risky to hire ahead of sales
even a stretch one before you have two
reps that hit quota because a head of
sales job is to hire reps three through
300 not to create product Market fit not
to create the Playbook but to take a
really rough Playbook that's that it's
not really clear why it's working but
you've proven twice two reps can hit
quota
a smart first time VP sales will listen
they'll learn they'll get on calls they
may carry a quota they may carry it back
and they'll hire you three three hundred
so two you would buy from then wait then
hire the head of sales right and then
the last one then we could break we go
along is and I wrote this so early and
people still think it's controversial
today but I wrote one of the first Astro
posts and I've updated it which is I
hired my VP of marketing at 20K mrr it
wasn't a week too early okay I used to
have like cuter titles but I hired it
20K Mr it wasn't a week too early and I
and I went through the math I hired I
hired Loretta at 20K I didn't know much
about marketing at the time
but I think we went from like 20 20. so
20 kmr 240 to maybe 800 in a year it
wasn't like a rocket ship right but you
come in and all she had to do was help
get me in enough leads to close another
couple hundred thousand dollars and that
one more than covered her comp to fueled
the sales team three built our bones so
we could do more demand gen and things
and so don't hire someone that works on
your logo all day there's another old
classic faster post don't hire the wrong
VP marketer you'll just get a bunch of
pens with your blue logos on it half the
folks here will tell you their Miss hire
of marketing just did like branding and
product marketing and corporate
marketing no but you can't hire a growth
marketer a true demand gen marketer
uh you can hire them too early when you
have no customers but as soon as you
have even a hand 10 20 customers you can
hire a great senior growth marketer
demand to get you more leads so hire
that person as early as you can find her
or him that's that's the third of the
things I just sold all down thanks for
the question thank you so much really
appreciate it thanks a lot for sure
hey Jason thanks for a great event
thanks for coming you recently wrote an
article that said you know when the
phone rings pick it up yeah even though
the current DNA is put people in a work
cycle and schedule any meeting in three
days yes two-part question what
motivated you to write the article the
other is what's your advice to companies
who want to change that DNA but are
struggling with it
well yeah look I the irony is um
it's funny support is so I'm so
passionate about support for a whole
bunch of reasons
um but um I got passionate about
initially because back in the day when I
was a CEO we we quickly expanded to the
UK very early like six months in our
biggest our biggest three customers were
in London six months and not expected
right a white swan event maybe not a
Black Swan event and we had nine people
and no one really was willing to do
support from 12 to six in the morning
but our product went down every day so
someone had to do support when the load
hit and we went from like 10 concurrent
users to a thousand when this huge
company rolled us out so you I mean you
could imagine why there were issues and
so someone had to do support and so I
did it every night from 12 to 5 in the
morning until we could do it for for UK
time so I became very passionate about
support tools doing this me not having
to do it and so I got very early I
immediately when I when I realized I
couldn't hire 10 support people I
immediately hired an outsourced team in
Canada so that someone could do the chat
and pick up the phone 24 7. I figured
out how to get good at that and then I
just kept investing in companies that
did some of this because I was
passionate about I invested in talk desk
which is worth 10 billion now to do
phone contact center I invested a
smaller amount in front which is 1.7 I
invested in gorgeous which has 10 000
customers in the Shopify ecosystem I
invested in Meister QA which is the
leader in um in contact center QA making
agents perform sort of like gong but for
QA and so I I'm very passionate about it
but to really answer your question why
am I more passionate it's because all of
these SAS companies in support and
outside important invested in no one
does support even support companies do
shitty support and I go on and I and I
play I go on to all the leaders the the
okay does does do all the leaders in SAS
do the zendes and the intercoms and do
they answer their phone and say none of
them do either right and and I learned
as a Founder I could make up so many
competitive gaps by picking up the phone
so so many because no one did and you
can't solve a number one feature Gap but
boy when I had someone even when we were
telling 10 people 24 7 answering the
phone and I wrote them a script so the
top 10 questions even if they they
couldn't do tier two support right but
they could answer the 10 questions and
they could say I'm sorry Bob I'm sorry
Linda Scott or someone will get back to
you in a little while here's the best I
know like that didn't solve their
problem but boy they felt better boy or
NPS was happier and I'm just shocked
shocked when SAS companies say they
can't afford to do support they can't
afford to do phone support I'm like I
get it but like when I call the
restaurant in San Mateo they answer the
phone
why can't you answer the phone when all
the restaurants at saster night answer
the phone well no you'd like you don't
need your your top engineer and don't
have a human being and it's it's the
same half the questions or the same damn
questions again and again and again do
you have a HubSpot integration yes yeah
I mean whatever or like the the internet
the app doesn't work well you know
whatever I mean I'm not doing the best
answers but pick up so that I'm
passionate about it because I find so
many folks in support are crappy at
smart and I'll tell you a last story
obviously I love I love HubSpot to death
I love everything about Brian and and
darmesh and the company but I but no but
but I remember when they were kind
enough to invite me to their founder day
in 2019 and there there there they did a
whole thing on Twitter it was great and
they all talked about how they're going
to automate support more and more and I
said that's great because you have so
many customers are like but I'm curious
how quickly do you pick up the phone and
they didn't know right and I get that
it's hard but um anyhow I know you're in
the space we can end the question there
but I just think the the reason I write
it is because I've seen it myself and
I've seen support you've got to be good
at whatever you do right and support
companies struggle but it's the simplest
thing you can do this week this next
week after all of the annual
is you can go back and you can upgrade
your support you can upgrade you do not
need the world's experts you can you can
Outsource it to start you can just hire
one more person to pick up the phone and
if you you're like well I'm gonna get
too many calls well at least you're
going to answer some of them right and
the other complaint we get is hey if I
do real-time support or if I do
real-time tickets all my free users and
my small users overwhelm us well
at least you can talk to some and then
you can build systems and then you can
filter the questions and then you can
tree our support and then you can hire
someone just to do free and someone to
just like an upside just to do two to
twenty and then just to do there are
tools the systems and routing is much
more sophisticated today but even if you
don't ship another feature this year you
can go back and you can upgrade your
support next week and you can do some of
it next week and you can do it for four
to six weeks and your MPS will go up
your sales will go up a little bit your
nrr will go up and people will just be
happier when as a human being why do I
have to spend this money and I can't
talk to a person like it's criminal why
can't I talk to a human being in any SAS
company why I mean we we're switching to
HubSpot because I love HubSpot we we pay
Marketo like a hundred thousand dollars
a year I can't get anybody on the phone
right
um I tried to I was using a product a
mission critical product for saster over
the weekend that went down okay it
happens I go on to their live chat
they're like response we'll get back to
you within a few days like
you're not down anymore you were down I
have a question I have to wait three
days for my for my from how many of you
can go on to your intercom or drift or
whatever you use and it's going to say
someone will be back to you in 60
seconds none of you right it's criminal
and as expensive as it is and I will end
my rant or my ramble whatever you think
it costs it's cheaper than engineers and
it's easier to Source than engineers and
it's cheaper than building features and
it's cheaper than building products and
it's not just a great support wins
that's of course hopefully true it's
that it's an upgrade it's an upgrade you
can do without a line of code without
another without a VP of sales without
that great VP of marketing you've been
spending a year to find you can do the
upgrade at some level next week so
thanks for the question thank you yeah
hi Jason thank you so much for putting
this together
um I just want to give a shout out to um
thank you so much for taking in
diversity inclusion efforts at soster
thanks for coming yeah it was it was
wonderful to sort of be a part of it so
my name is Zoya um and we are basically
a gifting company and my question to you
is so what advice do you have for
bootstrapped companies that have just
under a million in ARR but are having
trouble
um sort of selling their mission their
story to investors
well okay I'm gonna give I'm gonna
answer let me break it up into two
points
um I don't think I'll I'll give them the
smaller point in the large point I don't
think you're struggling for investors
because you're bootstrapped investors
prefer actually if anyone thinks
investors don't prefer bootstrap
companies you're wrong and every
investor wants to do what it La what
excelled it in atlassian atlassian
bootstrapped its way up to like 50
million 100 million 100 million in
revenue and you couldn't get this deal
today I think it was 100 million there's
there's an old video I did with Jay
Simons who was president then I think at
100 million Excel invested at 400 so
four times revenue and I think about a
quarter of the company
okay that's the best deal is a VC
because there's no one else on the cap
table there's no you're not jockeying
with Sequoia and Andreessen for space
everyone wants to invest in the gym I
talked to a the first one I got here
right right when I walked into Sasser
Square Park we have a media CVC program
and I talked to a bootstrap founder he's
like Jason I love your me to VC program
I'm like great but some people have
different experiences like I got 32
meetings already
I'm like what's going on he's like well
I'm at 4 millionaire I'm bootstrapped
I'm going 150 a year and I'm in a really
hot space well you kind of get the
meeting right so
I just want to symbolize it's not VC's
prefer bootstrap companies yeah you want
signals the YC is great that we talked
about that first round did the precede
but that what they want is hot
companies with room on the cap table
where they can buy every share they want
so don't let that be an excuse don't
bootstrapping is not bootstrapping is a
reason it's harder right we'll get to
that next but it's not it is a positive
for most of us VCS would love to be the
first one of the captain because there's
more space and less drama right it's
what you want
um
the different point is bootstrapping is
harder and I asked Ben Chestnut for
MailChimp if you're a solid session and
we I I didn't but we asked Michael
Cannon Brooks went lasting one and
everyone says the same thing I wrote
this post a long time ago it typically
takes three to four years longer being
bootstrapped it does and it's sometimes
that can kill you if you pick the wrong
part of a fast moving segment because
someone will get funded and there are
spaces there's parts of fintech payments
where the there's no time to bootstrap
right there are other Niche spaces maybe
you vertical SAS where you know it's
competitive but like you're competing
with 20 year old software like sometimes
it's okay if it takes a little longer um
but however you get there by 10 here's
the last Point by it takes longer but by
10 million or so in ARR you have
convergent evolution these paths
converge by 10 million ARR you have if
you boots up to 10 million error you're
generated enough cash to hire all the
VPS you want okay you can hire a
thousand sales reps like maybe a brex or
someone can but you can hire enough
you're generating enough cash at 10
million that you do it is only elective
if you want to control your future right
um so the painful but best advice I give
to bootstrappers is if you're unable to
get funding and you want funding and it
sucks and it does suck it may be brutal
it may be painful but by 10 million you
may be Ben Chestnut when they finally
after constant contact went poker they
finally came to him and said Ben can we
invest in you he's like I don't need
your why would I take your money now
like I'm gonna just own all of it at 12
billion and you're not you probably
won't exit for 12 billion but it does
normalize at 10 million so you got to
brute force it to there right so thanks
for the question thank you so much
hi Jason Hi thanks for coming right
right before me uh thank you for the
Diversity Program very grateful to be
here um and great to see a lot of
different faces
um so I think that makes it a better
event uh and congratulations on 10 years
thank you and that's actually where my
question comes from because you said at
the beginning you were very focused on
everyone learning from your failures and
mistakes and then got into best
practices so we all know as
entrepreneurs once you hit a goal it's
really important to have the next one
yep otherwise you're going to be like
okay I got it so what do I do now so
that's my question for you I mean what
do you see as the next big thing that
you want to achieve either with this
event or the brand how do you reach more
Founders how do you help more people I'm
just curious to know
for saster itself yes
um
or if you have personal goals also
you're like now that I've done this no
it's a good question and I think that um
I I think that um we don't have it all
figured out
um the basically what we really want to
do is
do more types of mentorship and and
learning at scale so you know if you did
it you know we did would do like almost
2 000 brain dates here we've got pretty
good out here we got pretty good in
Europe we want to start doing that every
week online a version of it online which
hopefully we can roll out in Q4 there's
different places that can go
um but like
maybe it's too nichy I mean Sasser is a
community it's not an event it's a
community and and we we started doing
meetups for a community because I've
never been to a Meetup but I heard
people did it
um so we did one and like 500 people
came to the first and that's common
today but it was unusual and business
software back then and those events got
bigger those meetups got bigger and
became events and then became 10 000
people at events and
um but it's not about events it's about
what
a sort of self-organizing community
we're not forcing people to go on Circle
or Discord so it's a weird community in
some ways but how can you add value for
the community so the real goal is to add
one minor and one major piece of value
to the community each year and to grow
to grow with it so I know it sounds a
little amorphous
um saster itself you know basically has
broke barely well it lost money it lost
10 million last year broke even
um as a side almost everything's free
right all the contents free assassin
University thank you but we to fund
operation friends we do have for our
internal team we do have a goal of
getting into 100 million
so saser took a long time but we'll do
27 million this year still give away
almost everything for free it's not it's
kind of fun to give away everything for
free and do 27 million right so our goal
tactically and and for fun too is to see
if we can get from 27 to 100 because 100
is a fun a fun outcome right and if
you're at 27 it's like so it's kind of
fun because like now we know how to get
to 40 next year it's like we know we can
go from 27 to 40 bootstrapped in a way
right even though I invest it's
bootstrap 27 to 40. we don't know how to
get to 100 but we have hints of 100 and
so kind of redoing that Journey but
that's secondary to to investing in the
community if we invest in the community
the rest of the stuff with good people
just kind of I don't mean to exaggerate
but it almost takes care of itself right
okay because these sponsors hear what we
are grateful to right they're they're
here they're not deluding your
performance we're not selling out
um but they want to be where number one
is right so if we keep if we keep at
just add value and we'll get more
sponsors and make it fun without having
to like dilute our mission or anything
there you go thank you thanks for the
question
hey Jason uh this is Anthony from
deselect and I'm sure you're fed up from
hearing thank you by now thanks for
coming yeah we implemented like 80 of
your content so being here at saster for
the first time was quite
transformational so thank you thank you
I got I got two questions first question
is like a little more uh personal funder
related potentially uh cultural what
would you recommend a early stage
founder who recently let's say last
Saturday relocated to the us as a
European to further scaleless company
what do I recommend yeah
well
um
look when I started investing I did
almost all year to us right the first
one was pipe Drive Estonia to the Bay
Area the second one was algolia France
to the Bay Area the third one was talk
desk which was Lisbon to the Bay Area
right
um and then I did a bunch of others
um but that's a generation ago right
that was a generation to go um but and
some things have changed especially now
that we're running distributed teams
right but what hasn't changed is that um
the ones that got the most out of it and
then I did like show pad from Belgium oh
yesterday invested in us I know them
what's that yeah and some got more out
of it than others and I know this is
totally obvious so I don't know that I
have brilliant advice here but you got
it you gotta like Network
and and you gotta meet the Americans
okay and um and sometimes I'm invested
in so many French to us gorgeous Plato
algolia front
um voxied
um I mean a long list of others and
um the French the French entrepreneurs
there's a great B2B ecosystem right
especially technical but I have but they
do hang out a lot together okay and I'm
glad the French have each other here and
that they still come to the Bay Area
since it's much further than New York
but you got to meet other people and too
many too many Founders end up coming to
the U.S and mostly hanging out with
somewhat similar their Founders and I
get it and and I think that's okay for
peer CEOs like because you need peers
but it sucks for VPS yeah right you
don't if you're from France you don't
want to meet the French VPS of sales
that happen to be in the Bay Area you
want to meet all the other ones and
sometimes they're too insular and I you
know I'm a little bit of an introvert
um even you know I thought Brian
Halligan was the most extroverted sales
guy he he considers himself an introvert
darmesh considers himself an introvert
but you gotta for just just Network
right well maybe on that note we're
still hiring a sales leader for Austin
office so yeah Austin so and you gotta
hust you just gotta that's the thing and
so if you're gonna move here today where
it's hell it absolutely helps right but
it's not as critical as it used to be
it's it's not it's not like do or die
like your world will end if you're a
European founder and you don't come to
the Bay Area like your company will die
like we don't think that anymore right
just make sure you get the bang for your
buck because it is expensive on the soft
cost side I just don't go to every event
meet every VC to net Network go to every
do even if you don't like to do more of
it and and and you know I'm a the
world's worst networker I don't even
know how to network I don't know how to
go to par I mean you heard darmesha
story with his wife does the networking
for me I I kind of like that except I
don't have the partner to do it for me I
don't know what I literally don't know
what to do at a cocktail party so one of
the reasons I started saster was so I'd
have something to talk to people at at
parties because I would go to like
parties with like the dads at school and
people would make fun of me because I
didn't talk like you know I like me like
how's your sales team going and they
would want to talk about sports or like
The Core Curriculum so I know it sounds
that sounds silly but I wasn't good at
it so I formed a community to talk about
SAS but um but force yourself get taught
and what the sorry I got a little fun
tangent what I've learned doing this for
10 years is this compounds
these were the people you meet here
today A few of them most of them won't
fail because very few people come to
saster that are pre-revenue and almost
no one comes before a million in Revenue
so the the people you meet today you
will meet a couple incredible people
here that will go on and you will turn
around I I didn't even know until I did
um a digital event with them that the
founders of Monday came here for like
their first U.S event from Israel I
didn't even know they came and I checked
my email they sent me an email I never
met them they're like dear Jace whatever
they're called before Monday would you
like to meet would you like to invest I
didn't even respond that was a mistake
um there's others but a rambly point of
you don't the Monday Guy They'll be here
right
um and so
do don't just come to saster do
everything you can when you're local to
to to do that because this person you
meet here that in a year if they if they
bond with them even a little bit they
may recommend a VP of sales to you in a
year like these these even recruiting
takes years over time right and the the
executives you have today you may need
different ones in three to four years
and so these connections are so
especially if you're like me and you're
not inherently hypersocial these these
these relationships can become you don't
even have to force them they can become
so valuable over time right so rambly
answer is get get off the YouTube and
and network as until you want to throw
up in one of the local community right
all right fantastic thank you and if you
have a hard time networking I'm happy to
have a drink okay thank you I I have one
more question I was exaggerating a
little bit but not not too much yeah I
did have one more question okay so say
in uh today's market uh your early stage
and a bunch of great VCS are actually
willing to give you money at say a happy
evaluation but you don't really need it
are there any conditions you would still
take that money
well okay look yes um let me step back
for a minute um
the rough rule as you scale over time is
only raise money if you need it or it's
cheap if you need it and and you're
lucky enough to get it of course take it
right up both of my startups at the time
I I need I did not have enough personal
resources to fund what they did so I
needed Venture Capital both times the
first time I got the world worth deal I
raised eight on two
do the math eight on two what's the post
or is that a real question yeah ten so
how much did you sell in the first round
25 80 no I raised eight on a two pre
oh bad times but I need but I needed it
right I I didn't even uh it didn't even
bother me for a moment because the
company wouldn't exist without eight on
two right
um that was that was like the lowest
point in the history of fundraising but
we could chat about later if it's fun
but or if someone else wants to ask I'm
happy to talk about it but and then the
second time I needed less money but I
still needed it so you needed your raise
right and then for me it was probably a
mistake but once I was profitable even
the second time I I stopped racing
because I didn't need the money right
um and if I had we hadn't sold to Adobe
I probably would have later raised when
it got cheap right so if you if you need
it it doesn't matter because you need it
and if it's cheap if it's cheap then
like there are reasons to not take cheap
money but you should at least think
about it right okay so you're not in
that you're doing okay people want to
fund you but it's like you might sell 20
or 30 of your company now for some good
money but not again life-changing amount
of money for the company that's the
question right
well different numbers but but but
enough but not enough to change the like
it's enough but not not it's not a
hundred million dollars tomorrow right
for for one percent of the company so
notwithstanding the heuristic of cheap
or whatever I think that you if you can
raise money but you don't need it you
need to calmly take your time and say
who are the executives over the next 18
months the VPS that I can calmly hire
with this money because that's when you
get the bang for your buck and you have
to ask yourself am I am I a sequential
hirer do I hire a VP of sales and then
marketing and then end and then product
and CS can I can I hire in parallel with
this money that's worth it if you can
find the people it's worth it to hire in
parallel Can Am I am I too nervous am I
did I turn away that VP of sales
candidate because she wanted a 600 kot
now 600k sounds like a lot right but
actually when I think back on it it was
250 but 350. so 250 base but 350 if she
hit the plant and 250 base is only 20K a
month isn't it so it's not that much if
she performs because she raises the
money or if she doesn't I'm only at 20K
a month so like but if you're too lean
you think oh my God God 600k OTE like
I'm getting ripped off like I only make
80.
and this VBS sales want so you got to
think calmly it's not just how would you
spend the money because because you'll
come the wrong answer it's just the VPS
what because this is all about once you
hit even a million Revenue it's all
about who you can recruit right before
that it's your founding team and it's
and so if you if raising this money
de-stresses a couple critical VPS raise
it tomorrow right that's the answer
great answer thanks for the question
hi Jason my questions about the VP of
sales yes we're uh we're a company
that's we have two reps they're going
way over quota okay whether you're there
right yeah we follow your advice quite
seriously to be honest so we're about to
hire our first VP of sales okay good
timing and what do you think we should
watch out for in the next 90 days and
when should we bring in our VP of
customer success
well those are two what should you watch
out for while you're hiring the VP of
sales no once we bring them in what
should we watch out for
um
look what you should what and I'll tell
you that I'll give you a similar answer
for Success next
what you should watch out for when you
hire a VP of sales you will know before
she or he starts
and I know I've written about this and I
know it's now become trite but it's so
true
will they bring one or two good people
with them right
a real VP of sales
you know this is old school tap not old
it's not dated but it's one of the first
stuff I wrote or
and I've written it probably a hundred
times what's the number the number one
job for a VP of sales is recruiting is
building a team you have two so whether
her job is to get you from three to ten
or three to six or three to three
hundred it's recruiting recruiting's
hard right anyone think recruiting is
easy in this room like congrats to you
but it's hard right and so the best even
stretch VPS of sales even they're really
just directors or leaders they're always
recruiting they're always they're always
meeting people recruiting you know I'm
gonna in my next gig I'm gonna get Tony
to run the West I'm gonna get Linda to
run this and they always have they're
always recruiting and if they're if
there's more senior they're always
recruiting directors and VPS and and
otherwise they're recruiting ICS they're
like okay well at my last gig at aircall
I worked with Joe he was the best I'm
gonna like I'm always with Joe I'm
getting drinks with Joe when I'm in town
because when I do my next role or when
I'm finally DPS sales the first time I
want Joe to be the first person on my
team and I want Sarah to be the second
and so
even if they're a stretch EP even if
they're this might be their first VP
role if they don't have one or two
queued up zero approaching zero percent
chance they make it
okay if they tell you until I was asked
were you going to get your first couple
reps and they're like well I'm gonna
hire some recruiters
we all need recruiters I love recruiters
but when you when you don't have anybody
it's the biggest red flag there is even
worse is okay what recruiter you're
going to use I'm not sure
like okay if you're a great recruiter
yourself one you recruit yourself and
two you use recruiters to help you have
to use both right and so the best VPS
and sales also have a recruiter they
work with in some in some fashion right
even if they don't love them and so
point being if they haven't told you who
those people are they probably don't
have them and you can talk to them and
interview them and see the motion before
they even start and if you cut those
corners and sometimes we do you will
know within 30 days whether they're on
the job
right
and then we could talk it's it's so true
but like let's imagine what how much are
you doing a million in Revenue five five
for two reps good job okay so your VP of
sales job is to take you from five to
ten right or whatever but let's call it
five to ten to keep the math simple
let's say you obviously you've been
wildly efficient okay but let's say you
decide calmly okay our reps can do like
800k to a million each you're probably a
little bit more Enterprise or I don't
know the story but anyhow okay what's
that 50k per round okay so
but like you're gonna need to go from
five to ten let's say it's 500k uh per
per each you're going to need 10 scaled
reps aren't you yeah to go from five to
ten so the best VP of sales is really
okay that means I need four in my first
quarter and that means I need two is not
enough I need two more of my first month
and so they're always doing that and so
you see this motion and you see one of
three things when the VP is sales starts
you either see no Motion in people that
that's the worst sign of all you see
them bring in two or three folks they
worked with before
that's the great sign or sometimes they
bring in a bunch of crappy people which
is risky but at least they're trying but
always always ask them who will you
bring with you and more experience they
might know 10
if it's really a stretch I would settle
for one okay right I know it's not
enough but the best ones always somehow
bring their ringer they bring their
ringer one way or another and like like
on our little sales team at saster Brian
our our VP of sales he brought in his
old boss
one of his ringers was he convinced his
old boss to come in and be one of our
top sales folks right and so that's just
another way to get it done isn't it but
he he did it right so but none of those
like just no matter how much you like
them no matter how good they look in the
Blazer no matter how much they talk the
talk and tell you what it was like at
GitHub or twilio or what do you just
okay great hooray hooray you're tall
strapping handsome and worked wherever
who are you bringing with you who are
you bringing with you and if if you get
a mushy answer just
um and anyhow that's my rambling answer
of Evie if you don't listen to me even
if you make the mistake anyway
if 30 days in there's no one they
haven't brought in any good
like you need it's it's not a Black Swan
event but it's like a micro event you
need to already be planning as tragic as
it sounds that they're not going to work
out
and you know we I everyone talks about
you know hiring slowly and firing
quickly it's there's some toxicity in
that right
um it's not more that it's more everyone
will tell you that it gets on stage here
that made a mishire in VP will tell you
it's not just that they should have
gotten rid of them quicker it's the
damage they do the damage they do to
your they spend all the money and they
hire 10 terrible people and so
um give them Severance friggin give them
a year of severance if you can who cares
what the severance is move out if they
don't have anyone good in 30 days
realize it by day 60 you may need to
move them out as painful as it is right
and then the last rambly point is the
big mistake then they make is they don't
talk to the two reps they don't see the
progress and they give them more time
right you can be a human being and
it's not this like this this lame fire
people it's
um admit to the VP you hired it's your
fault
that that terrible VP of sales you hired
May well go on to a better environment
and Thrive that VP of sales maybe should
not join a 5 million error company but
will Thrive at a 50 million dollar error
company with a brand behind them or a 40
million dollar company with money or in
a different industry it is your fault as
CEO if you hire a bad VP read more
faster
it's your do not I blamed my first VP of
sales I blamed him for coming from
Salesforce and never working at a
startup and failing I blamed him and it
was not his fault it was my fault for
hiring him it was my fault for sticking
with him for nine months that's all a
hundred I thought it was like 50 50 no
it was 100 on me right so move him out
by day 60 apologize honestly say it was
your fault give him a check if you can
afford it give him a bigger check than
you think they deserve if you can afford
if you think they deserve 30 days give
them 60. like treat people the way you
would like to be treated but address it
honestly take the blame and move on so
that that's just what you want to do it
between 30 and 60 right it doesn't mean
don't back them you gotta back your
hires right but if they don't bring in
anybody it's hopeless to go from five to
ten right yeah okay rambly it's
hopefully there's enough in there to be
helpful that was really helpful thank
you can I ask about the VP of customer
success is oh yeah real quick then we'll
do one more but
um look I I've written stuff like when
the ideal time to hire VP customer
success is but the real truth is you're
too late at five million you have two
how many customers do you have well we
have a self-serve and Enterprise yeah
but about 22 000 in total and you don't
have a vpa customers so you know it's
too late yeah
yeah you don't you know it's too late
right yeah you can hack it with
self-serve and support and other things
but like
um
the real issue today so look you can't
you can't actually hire a head of
customer success too early per se here's
the problem in today's world right which
has changed is
so many folks don't aren't willing to do
any work anymore
the problem used to be everybody wanted
to be senior but now most VPS you know
even five years ten years ago a VP would
come in and actually do sales or do
support or do marketing themselves or
set up HubSpot themselves 10 years ago
um five years ago they would do a little
bit of it and hire them today everyone
wants eight people
everyone everyone that has three years
of experience wants eight people on
their team okay I'm a marketing manager
here I'll be your VP but I need a head
of content I need a head of demand gen I
need ahead of I need a head of growth I
need a what are you what are you going
to do
so the real problem with customer
success is finding someone that will
that will do it do do any work
themselves these days and the reason and
that can mean different things different
function areas the problem in CS is
folks that won't do the work all want to
do processing systems
now you will get big enough in CS where
everyone knows your brand and everyone
knows your product and and your CS team
do not have to be cut product experts
it's true it's a weird moment in time
when they don't have to be product
experts but usually
even up to 20 million error your CS team
have to be product savants they're
fixing feature gaps they're they're
tweaking things that don't quite work
they're doing hidden settings they're
fixing your admin tool they're finding
this Rogue consultant that kind of gets
you to integrate with HubSpot when it
doesn't quite work they're they're
fixing a web hook or an API call that's
sort of undocumented and the best ones
are these gurus right they're gurus of
your product and when you hire a c a two
senior VP they just want to install
software and hire a team and it just
fails so that's who you can't afford
you're not you're not big enough yet
right so but make the higher but make
sure they're a product person today
right got it thank you so much thank you
good all good okay thanks everybody
thanks for coming I think we have happy
hour till six